All right.
So in this lesson, I want to talk a little more about how our view app is mounted in the browser.
In the previous lesson, we explored the index that each HTML file within our public folder, and this
is the core HTML page, this is the basic barebones HTML structure of our page.
You'll also notice when I save this file, prettier will go to work on this HTML file as well and adjust
it accordingly.
But the fact remains that we have a whole bunch of information here in the head element, and that's
all the stuff that pulls in, for example, the navigation and sets the device with.
But the core heart of the content that the user sees, which is within the body tag, is basically just
a single div with an idea of app and there's nothing within this div.
So by default, this HTML isn't really rendering anything significant to the screen.
So how are we able to see the view after we just saw in our browser?
So that happens in the source directory and the main JS file.
So I'm going to open this file side by side with indexed that HTML and there is a whole bunch of JavaScript
code in here.
And what I'm actually going to do is delete it and we're actually going to write back that code from
scratch.
And the reason we're going to do that is just so we can talk a little bit more about what it's doing.
This is some sample code that the client generated for us, but I want to make sure we don't simply
gloss over it and assume that it works.
I want to talk more about what exactly is going on.
And in order to do that, we're going to write that same code from scratch.
So what we're going to try to do is we're going to try to create a view application right here, and
then we're going to try to connect it so that it renders or mounts.
In other words, right here what this div is.
So we want to have this view application, which is basically just a complex JavaScript configuration,
and we want to kind of plug it into this section right here.
The first thing I'm going to do is to import a function from the View Library called Create App, and
that is a named export.
So right here in my main just file, I'm going to write import create app from view.
They named export from the view library.
All right.
And when we call Create App, we're going to need to invoke that function and provide it with a root
component.
Which brings us to the question, what is a component?
For now?
The easiest way to think about a component is just a slice of your user interface.
So it's a chunk of the page, right?
It's some it's some section of your web page.
So if you think about a typical web app, it may have something like a navigation menu than a main content
area and then a footer.
And you could say that maybe that page consists of three distinct components the navigation menu, the
main content and the footer.
Now, there's no right or wrong answer about what a single component should be.
Some developers can say, Well, a button is a single component.
It's a chunk of the user interface, right?
So it's not some kind of technical idea that has a perfect definition.
It's kind of just a unit that we use to describe some section or some chunk or some piece of the web
page, right?
So a view component is going to kind of render itself.
And in that view component, we might have other components being rendered as well.
It's actually the exact same idea as we have in HTML, right?
If we think about HTML, for example, we may have something like a DIV and you do not need to copy
along with this.
By the way, we may have a div and in that div we may have something like an unordered list.
And in that unordered list we may have a list item.
Right.
And sort of a similar idea.
This can be considered a chunk of code on our screen and we have this sort of top level container within
there.
We have its child elements and within that we have its own child elements as well.
And Vue components work the exact same way.
For example, we may have a component to represent a navigation menu and then it may render a separate
component within itself to represent each navigation item.
It's the exact same idea that we have with structuring HTML elements.
That's just a very basic introduction.
We're going to go more into components in a later lesson, but the key takeaway here is that a view
component is just a chunk of the interface, and in order to run the app function, it needs at least
some component that it's going to use as the basis to kick everything off with.
Right.
So you can almost think of it in equivalent terms, h, html, h and that sort of begins with this top
level HTML tag right here.
That's sort of the parent that gives birth to all of these other children right here.
It's sort of the same idea here.
This function needs the root component, the starter component, almost like the grandfather component
that's going to start rendering all these other smaller components underneath it that form the hierarchy
of what we see on the page.
So in our app we have a view component and all of the components, by the way, will be in files with
a dot view extension.
So right here we have this app dot view component in the same source directory as Main.
Yes.
So what I want to do is import this component right here and pass in that component as the argument
to create app.
When I'm telling viewers I want to create an app and I want this app component to be its kind of starting
basis, its foundation, it's first thing to render on the screen.
All right.
And then all.
Later on, of course in APP is where we start rendering all of the other smaller components that each
handled their own chunks of the screen and so on.
So what I'm going to do here is I'm going to import the app component from the app dot view file in
the same directory.
So I'm just going to use relative imports right here.
I'm just going to say from the same directory, which is what this dot slash is import the app component
and it's going to be a default export.
So written just like this.
All right.
And then what I'm going to do is I'm going to pass in that app component right here.
So by itself, this will actually create a view app.
Unfortunately, it's not connected to our HTML in any way now that we have this sort of view app with
all its logic baked in and it's rendering this app component purely in JavaScript terms we now need
to do is we need to take that logic, that view component and this representation and say, hey, plug
it into right here where you have this dim with an idea of app.
Take this app component and kind of inject it in there, put it there, render it there and place it
there.
So we see this app component rendered within here because remember, our HTML right now has a single
empty div which is going to show up as nothing on the screen.
We want this content to show up right here.
So in order to do that, the object that we get back from Create App has a method called Mount and Mount
describes where we want to actually mount or in other words, put the component on the screen.
So if you think about mounting a picture on the wall, it's the exact same idea.
Except in this case the app is our picture and our HTML file is our wall.
So we have to say exactly where we want to mount this app or equivalently, this painting.
So where do we want to put this app component right here in this dinner with an idea of app?
The way we can target this div is by using its ID, which is also conveniently app.
So the way we do that is we provide a string and in order to target an element by its ID, we use this
hash tag.
So hash tag app.
Okay.
Just again, to clarify, this can be whatever we want.
So if this ID, for example, was whatever.
That would be totally fine.
As long as we say target the HTML element with a ID of whatever.
Right.
So as long as this matches what this is right here, we should be fine.
However, the common community convention is going to be absence.
That just makes sense.
All right.
I'm going to switch this back to app and this to app as well.
And so I know it can be a little bit confusing because we're using the word app to mean many different
things.
In this case, create app means our view application.
In this case, app as the argument is our app component, which is just a chunk of user interface.
And in this case, this idea of app is simply using the element or ID selector in order to target this
specific div right here.
So that view knows that it's going to take that app component and inject it or mounted right here.
And that's how these two files are connected to each other.
The index HTML file loads, the web page and the barebones HTML, then it loads in the JavaScript file
containing the view.
View kicks everything off by launching the app component, and then it looks for where to inject itself
into the HTML page.
We told it to look for the element with an idea of app.
So it takes the view app and it kind of places it in there.
And for that point, the View app takes over and JavaScript is completely in control.
The JavaScript bundle determines how to put up elements on the screen, how to tear down elements,
how to replace elements, how to replace elements as we navigate from one page to another.
It's a single page app because it's still fundamentally a single HTML file that never changes everything.
The user sees that updates on screen is handled entirely by the view and by JavaScript.
All right.
And this is where we kick everything off.
So this is where the process begins.
This is where the view app mounts.
All right.
So hopefully that has been helpful.
And later on, we'll talk more about what a component is in Vue terms.
I'll see you in the next lesson.